#### 3.11 Optional chaining '?.'
A recent addition
This is a recent addition to the language. Old browsers may need polyfills.
The optional chaining `?`. is a safe way to access nested object properties, even if an intermediate property doesn’t exist.

**The “non-existing property” problem**
If you’ve just started to read the tutorial and learn JavaScript, maybe the problem hasn’t touched you yet, but it’s quite common.

As an example, let’s say we have user objects that hold the information about our users.

Most of our users have addresses in user.address property, with the street user.address.street, but some did not provide them.

In such case, when we attempt to get user.address.street, and the user happens to be without an address, we get an error:
```js
    let user = {}; // a user without "address" property

    alert(user.address.street); // Error!
```

In many practical cases we’d prefer to get undefined instead of an error here (meaning “no street”).

How can we do this?

The obvious solution would be to check the value using if or the conditional operator ?, before accessing its property, like this:
```js
    let user = {};

    alert(user.address ? user.address.street : undefined);
```

It works, there’s no error… But it’s quite inelegant. As you can see, the "user.address" appears twice in the code. For more deeply nested properties, that becomes a problem as more repetitions are required.

E.g. let’s try getting user.address.street.name.

We need to check both user.address and user.address.street:
```js
    let user = {}; // user has no address

    alert(user.address ? user.address.street ? user.address.street.name : null : null);
```
That’s just awful, one may even have problems understanding such code.

Don’t even care to, as there’s a better way to write it, using the && operator:
```js
    let user = {}; // user has no address

    alert( user.address && user.address.street && user.address.street.name ); // undefined (no error)
```

AND’ing the whole path to the property ensures that all components exist (if not, the evaluation stops), but also isn’t ideal.

As you can see, property names are still duplicated in the code. E.g. in the code above, user.address appears three times.

That’s why the optional chaining ?. was added to the language. To solve this problem once and for all!

Optional chaining
The optional chaining ?. stops the evaluation if the value before ?. is undefined or null and returns undefined.

Further in this article, for brevity, we’ll be saying that something “exists” if it’s not null and not undefined.

*In other words, value?.prop:*

- [x] works as value.prop, if value exists,
- [x] otherwise (when value is undefined/null) it returns undefined.
Here’s the safe way to access user.address.street using ?.:
```js
    let user = {}; // user has no address
```
alert( user?.address?.street ); // undefined (no error)
The code is short and clean, there’s no duplication at all.

Reading the address with user?.address works even if user object doesn’t exist:
```js
    let user = null;

    alert( user?.address ); // undefined
    alert( user?.address.street ); // undefined
```
Please note: the ?. syntax makes optional the value before it, but not any further.

E.g. in user?.address.street.name the ?. allows user to safely be null/undefined (and returns undefined in that case), but that’s only for user. Further properties are accessed in a regular way. If we want some of them to be optional, then we’ll need to replace more . with ?..