Most of the time, operators and functions automatically convert the values given to them to the right type.

For example, `alert` automatically converts any value to a string to show it. Mathematical operations convert values to numbers.

There are also cases when we need to explicitly convert a value to the expected type.

<details>
<summary><b>String Conversion</b></summary>
String conversion happens when we need the string form of a value.

For example, `alert(value)` does it to show the value.

We can also call the `String(value)` function to convert a value to a string:

<code>let value = true;
alert(typeof value); // boolean
value = String(value); // now value is a string "true"
alert(typeof value); // string</code>

String conversion is mostly obvious. A false becomes "`false`", `null` becomes "`null`", etc.
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Numeric Conversion</b></summary>

Numeric conversion happens in mathematical functions and expressions automatically.<br>
For example, when division / is applied to non-numbers:<br>
<code>alert( "6" / "2" ); // 3, strings are converted to numbers</code>
We can use the Number(value) function to explicitly convert a value to a number:
<code>let str = "123";</code>
<code>alert(typeof str); // string</code>

<code>let num = Number(str); // becomes a number 123</code>

<code>alert(typeof num); // number</code>
Explicit conversion is usually required when we read a value from a string-based source like a text form but expect a number to be entered.

If the string is not a valid number, the result of such a conversion is NaN. For instance:

<code>let age = Number("an arbitrary string instead of a number");</code>
<code>alert(age); // NaN, conversion failed</code><br>
<b>Numeric conversion rules:</b>


Examples:

<code>alert( Number("   123   ") ); // 123
alert( Number("123z") );      // NaN (error reading a number at "z")
alert( Number(true) );        // 1
alert( Number(false) );       // 0</code>

Please note that null and undefined behave differently here: null becomes zero while undefined becomes NaN.

Most mathematical operators also perform such conversion, we’ll see that in the next chapter.
</details>
<details>
<summary><b>Boolean Conversion</b></summary>
Boolean conversion is the simplest one.

It happens in logical operations (later we’ll meet condition tests and other similar things) but can also be performed explicitly with a call to Boolean(value).

<code>The conversion rule:</code>

Values that are intuitively “empty”, like 0, an empty string, null, undefined, and NaN, become false.
Other values become true.
For instance:

<code>alert( Boolean(1) ); // true</code>
<code>alert( Boolean(0) ); // false</code>

<code>alert( Boolean("hello") ); // true
alert( Boolean("") ); // false</code>

Please note: the string with zero "`0`" is true
Some languages (namely PHP) treat "`0`" as false. But in JavaScript, a non-empty string is always true.

<code>alert( Boolean("0") ); // true
console.log( Boolean(" ") ); // spaces, also true (any non-empty string is true)</code>
</details>
<details open>
<summary><b>Summary</b></summary>
The three most widely used type conversions are to string, to number, and to boolean.

<b>String Conversion</b> – Occurs when we output something. Can be performed with String(value). The conversion to string is usually obvious for primitive values.

<b>Numeric Conversion</b> – Occurs in math operations. Can be performed with Number(value).

<code>
<li>udefined        => NaN</li>
<li>null,           => 0,</li>
<li>true/false      => 1/0</li>
<li>string	        => The string is read “as is”, whitespaces from both sides are ignored. An empty string becomes 0. An error gives NaN.</li></code>


<b>Boolean Conversion</b> – Occurs in logical operations. Can be performed with Boolean(value).<br>Follows the rules:
<code>
<li>0, null, undefined, NaN, ""	=> false</li>
<li>any other value,           => true,</li>
</code>
</details>